Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about different
storage classes
So first of all a storage class defines the scope
and lifetime of variables
We have four different storage classes in the C program
First let us discuss about auto. Auto
is the default storage class for all the local
variables here auto int i is as same as writing int i
so variable i is created and initialised with 100 in
the memory. now about the scope. auto storage class
Variable scope is limited to within the function or the
block and they can't be accessed from out of the
function
So here if we had another function fun and
and if we try to access i from that function
it cannot be accessed
Now let us discuss about static storage class as we
just discussed
The scope of local variable is limited to within the
function or the block and if we need to extend
the lifetime of a local variable throughout the programme then
we can use static storage class
Here we have static int i. So static variable
i will be created and the memory will be allocated
in the global section now we print value of  i so
we will get the output i equal to 10
Now we increment it so i will become 11 and
now we call the function and control reaches there and
there we print the value of again so i will
be accessed and its value will be printed and we
will get the output i equal to 11
Now let us
Discuss about register storage class. Local variables
are stored in random access memory by default
But if we need to store very frequently used variables
then we can use processor registers instead of RAM. Because
processor registers are obviously faster than RAM
So in such cases we can use register storage class
Here
We can store the local variables in the processor's register
instead of RAM
Here the variable i uses
The Intel processors register memory
Now what will happen if we try to print its
address or the memory location? Unlike RAM, the register
doesn't have a memory location so we can't access it
And if we try to do so it will throw
this error message
Finally let's discuss about exterb in some situations we
need to access the data across two files
In that case the external storage class will be very
useful here int i=10 is declared in
file1
If we want to use the same variable in file2
We need to use the extern key word before the
variable declaration in file2 like this when we use
the extern keyword
It tells the compiler that I am defined in
some other file and linker will resolve me later and
we are printing
the value of i in file2. Now let us compile
the two files GCC file1.c  file2.c
after compilation
The linker will be resolving the value of i
by linking the two object files
And finally the value of i that is 10 is
printed and this is how
the external storage class extends the visibility of a variable
across different files
This is how static storage class extends
The scope of the local variable throughout the programme
Now let's quickly summarise all these storage classes
The first one we discussed was auto
It is the default storage class
The scope of auto is within the function and auto
storage class variables cannot be accessed from out of the
function
The second one was static storage class
It extends the scope of local variable throughout the programme
Next one was register storage class
It stores the value in processor's register
Hence it provides faster access than RAM
We can use this to store the variables which need
frequent access
The last one was extern storage class
It extends the visibility of the variables across different
files
So that's all and thank you for watching this video